Next up, we are going to use code to say
when our player should transition from
idling to running so
that we can hold down the key.
And as we do that the player
not only flips but
also goes into that running state.
So, let's make our player run.
So let's remind ourselves of what's
going on with our state machine.
Here we have the default idling state and,
through a transition,
we go into the running state.
And then, after a transition,
we come back to the idling state.
What makes that transition happen is,
when our condition of running is true.
So running is a bool that we've set
up over here, so this is a bool.
It could mean a trigger or a float.
When this bool becomes true,
because bools are true or false,
then it says execute this transition,
because the condition is being met.
And then when the bool becomes false,
then you can see this condition is the
transition of returning back to idling.
So this is the important string that we
need to be referencing in our script,
to say when that is true or
when that is false.
And so what do we need to do
first with our player script?
We need to grab the animator,
we need to get the animator component.
Cuz that sits on the player here.
That has the information about
the player animated controller.
And the player animated controller
has our running reference just here.
So let's jump over into out player
script and start setting that up.
First of all we need to cache
our reference to the animator.
So we need a type of animator.
And we will call this myAnimator similar
to what we did with the RigidBody above.
And then, in the start method,
same as with the RigidBody as well,
we need to say myAnimator
equals GetComponent and
that is of type Animator, okay.
So, now we got that one,
I wanna just take a moment to give
some headings to our areas in here.
Just so you can see the way Ben and
I have been structuring our classes.
This one will get reasonably large,
not huge, but reasonably large.
So, just to be very clear,
where we put things, so
that you can be placing them in
the same place as us, in the future.
So the star we put in our Config,
sorry not Congig, Config.
Anything to do with before we
start playing the game we can set
these parameters and variables to certain
values so we can serialize our field.
And to have for example runSpeed here and
other parameters about how
our script should operate.
Underneath that we tend to put,
or we usually put state.
We don't have any state at the moment so
I'm going to go ahead and create one so
that you can see in here.
This would be a variable of bool type and
isalive = true.
And so I'll keep this around because we
will need this not in this lecture not for
a few lectures until we
get into death state.
But this is a state not at the moment
the state is saying the player is alive,
but at some time we will
need to turn this to false.
As we're playing, as we're running
the game, we'll turn it to false and
in that case the player will be dead,
isAlive won't be true.
After that, we set up our cached or
cached, depending on how you want to say
it, component References, as we've
just gone through that exercise there.
We've gone and set up the references for
rigid body and animator.
And then following from that, I'm just
gonna get rid of this standard study thing
here, we put in our messages,
then methods.
Okay, so that's the general flow
when we're putting things in there.
And as you're doing challenges,
that'll give you a good anchor for
where you can lay your things out so
it's consistent with what we're doing.
Now, back to making our player run.
If we go down to our run method we've got
down here, what do we need to add in here?
Well, we need to be setting the bool
when we're in this state of run,
so the player is running, therefore we
want the player to do run animation,
underneath this run method here.
So if we say, myAnimator.
And have a look at what our options
are in here, we'll see what we got,
if we scroll down we can see that we
have a set bool, so I've set bool.
We can set our bool to now let's
have a look at what it's asking for.
What it's asking for, I think the string
name and then the bool value.
So the string name,
let's jump back over onto here.
I know, Ben cringes, he winces and
cringes each time I type things
in without copying and pasting.
So this will give him warm and
fuzzy feelings.
Let's all do this together.
Let's go and copy running and
then come back and do our script here and
past running between some quotation marks.
So we now have running and
then it was looking for a bool value.
So either true or false?
So for the moment,
I'm going to say this is true.
This isn't going to be the final solution,
I'm gonna give that to you as a challenge.
But we'll set it to true and
we'll see what happens in our
game when that is the case.
So we should start off,
if I click play, we should start off
our default should be idling, and
our default goes straight to running.
Okay, so it is immediately to running.
Which is good we've gone and
told through our code, start to run.
But there's a problem here.
Because at any point in time,
the player is always running.
So what do we need to do?
We need to do something
before this to establish what
condition needs to be met in here for
the player to be running.
So this is going to be your challenge for
this lecture.
To Finish The Run State.
Feed in to our running animation a way
to say true if the player is running and
false if the player is not.
Now I'm going to give you a hint.
If you don't need a hint,
then jump in and solve this now.
It's one line of code.
And the hint is, use the code we
created for flipping our sprite.
Basically to say that the player
has horizontal speed,
or the player does not have horizontal
speed, because that's what we're going to
be using to see if the player
is running or not.
So there's a clue.
Use the code that we created for
flipping, jumping, and
give that a shot to have the run
state turn on and turn off.
Based upon whether we're running.
Welcome back.
So
the line of code we're interested in
is this playerHasHorizontalSpeed bool.
It is true if we are moving,
it is false if we're not moving
on the horizontal axis here.
So I'm going to copy that and paste
that above my Animation bool up here.
And then what do we need to do?
We need to feed in,
instead of putting true or false,
we need to put in this bool of
player has horizontal speed.
So this variable is either true or
is false,
meaning our running state will be
either set to true or set to false.
Let's save that and have a look to see
if our player now runs and doesn't run.
Okay, standing around just idling,
I move and I run, I move and I run.
Fantastic, it looks like, and you can
even see down in the animation here,
it triggers, and it turns off
the trigger when I let go, let go.
So that's the foundation for controlling
our animation from our code we set up our
state machine, we make sure that we
have a parameter which we can access.
And then in our code,
when particular things are happening, for
example we are using the run method
to give horizontal velocity,
we say that the running
transition condition is met, and
that condition being met means
that this state is true.
Great stuff, well done.
I will see you in the next video.